README.md, before:

## PAN-AI-X

Work in progress.

### Installation

First, you will need to install CUDA on your machine.
This code has been developed with Python 3.11 and CUDA 11.8.

1. `python -m venv panaix`
2. Activate the virtual environment:
    - On Windows: `panaix/Scripts/activate`
    - On Linux: `source panaix/bin/activate`
3. Install an appropriate version of torch, torchvision, and CUDA.
4. `pip install -r requirements.txt`


### Usage

```python
# Example usage:
weights_path = '/.../model.pth'
image_path = '/.../image.png'
train_dataset_path = '/.../train_dir'
val_dataset_path = '/.../val_dir'
test_dataset_path = '/.../test_dir'

# Create an instance of the PAN_AI_X toothpredictor
tooth_predictor = PAN_AI_X(weights_path)

# Use predict method for inference
prediction = tooth_predictor.predict(image_path)
print(prediction)

# Use train method for training
tooth_predictor.train(train_dataset_path, val_dataset_path, test_dataset_path)
```

### Training Dataset Setup

### Dataset directory structure

Datasets must follow the regular pytorch training guidelines. Images for each class therefore have to be stored in a seperate directory. The structure of the training datasets should look similar to this:

    datasets/
    ├── train
	│   ├── 00WP
	│   │   ├── preserve0001.png
	│   │   ├── ...
	│   └── 01EX
	│       ├── extract0001.png
	│       ├── ...
    ├── val
	│   ├── 00WP
	│   │   ├── preserve0900.png
	│   │   ├── ...
	│   └── 01EX
	│       ├── extract0100.png
	│       ├── ...
    └── test
	    ├── 00WP
	    │   ├── preserve1000.png
	    │   ├── ...
	    └── 01EX
	        ├── extract0110.png
	        ├── ...

### How to cite

Commit message:

no longer work in progess :)

README.md, after:

## PAN-AI-X

This repository contains the Python implementation of the PAN-AI-X Paper.

### Models

The different [models](https://github.com/OMFSdigital/PAN-AI-X/tree/usage_example/models) depicted in the image above that were obtained from training with different image % margins can be found under models.
The [2% margin model](https://github.com/OMFSdigital/PAN-AI-X/blob/usage_example/models/panaix_2.pth) performed best during testing and should be used to perform inference.

### Installation

First, you will need to install CUDA on your machine.
This code has been developed with Python 3.11 and CUDA 11.8.

1. `python -m venv panaix`
2. Activate the virtual environment:
    - On Windows: `panaix/Scripts/activate`
    - On Linux: `source panaix/bin/activate`
3. Install an appropriate version of torch, torchvision, and CUDA.
4. `pip install -r requirements.txt`


### Usage

```python
# Example usage:
weights_path = '/.../model.pth'
image_path = '/.../image.png'
train_dataset_path = '/.../train_dir'
val_dataset_path = '/.../val_dir'
test_dataset_path = '/.../test_dir'

# Create an instance of the PAN_AI_X toothpredictor
tooth_predictor = PAN_AI_X(weights_path)

# Use predict method for inference
prediction = tooth_predictor.predict(image_path)
print(prediction)

# Use train method for training
tooth_predictor.train(train_dataset_path, val_dataset_path, test_dataset_path)
```

### Training Dataset Setup

### Dataset directory structure

Datasets must follow the regular pytorch training guidelines for simple classification tasks. Images for each class therefore have to be stored in a seperate directory. The structure of the training datasets should look similar to this:

    datasets/
    ├── train
	│   ├── 00WP
	│   │   ├── preserve0001.png
	│   │   ├── ...
	│   └── 01EX
	│       ├── extract0001.png
	│       ├── ...
    ├── val
	│   ├── 00WP
	│   │   ├── preserve0900.png
	│   │   ├── ...
	│   └── 01EX
	│       ├── extract0100.png
	│       ├── ...
    └── test
	    ├── 00WP
	    │   ├── preserve1000.png
	    │   ├── ...
	    └── 01EX
	        ├── extract0110.png
	        ├── ...

### How to cite
